The last thing I want to do to the rack
is get it to the point
where I can make it into a back rib
We made the side ribs off the belly
so we can look at how the two compare.
So the first thing I need to do is I need
to take the handsaw and I need to chine
ah sorry, remove the chine bone
from the rack itself.
So this would be considered
the chine bone here with the rib meets
in with the backbone of this bone
structure here is called the chine bone.
So I need to identify
where I want to make that cut.
For me, I'll actually market
sometimes with a knife where we can see
these rib bones almost kind of round out
at the base of them.
I'm using those round bones
to kind of make a knife mark along
almost right
through the roundest part at the base. OK,
and then I can take my saw
and I'm just going to be following
along that mark.
Like so, once I'm through,
I don't want to be damaging the loin.
And this is something very familiar
to those who have worked with Lamb
as well, too.
If they don't have the luxury of a band
saw can be a little bit tricky
to get in there.
So I don't want to cut too, too
deep and damage that loin.
So I will just use my knife
to kind of break through where I can.
OK, so now I've got that
and leave it intact,
because it provides me with more stability
when I'm making my back ribs.
So now this is where
we're going to be making our back ribs.
I'll take the knife in that reverse
grip again.
And I just need to kind of be again,
fully aware of how much meat I'm leaving
on the back ribs while not wanting to take
too much away from the rack itself.
So my first cut is actually going
to be tight to the bone.
And there's this muscle right here
called the secondary muscle in the eye.
That's the muscle that I'm looking for.
So again, tight to the bone,
and I'll follow it through
until I come in contact with that
secondary eye.
Which is right
there when we open it up.
Now this cut is going to be
the most important
because this is
what I'm actually going into the loin.
So I want to make sure that I'm leaving
some good coverage of loin meat
on those back ribs as I come down.
And make the cut to remove the back ribs.
I can come through and pull that back rib
right out
from where I made the cut with the chine.
And now we've got our back ribs, OK.
Now, the last thing to do
is remove this backbone.
And I just follow it with my knife
like so, and remove that.
So I've got my boneless loin
or boneless rack and my back ribs.